Banas yen now look I'm gonna keep it all
the way real I'm gonna keep all the real
I have said things on YouTube that
directly cost me money right where I
lost patreon support immediately because
I kept it real and so it was real I'm
glad I said what I really believe said
what I really thought so I can see that
is a type of conflict of interest if
you're a phony piece of [ __ ] who's not
gonna keep it real look okay again I'll
keep it real this is partly about
YouTube in general this part of the book
vegan activism in general most of which
has nothing to do with YouTube and it's
part of the book bite size vegan this
particular example but I mean there's
definitely a sense in which I would
probably be making more money if I was
being nice een ice with people I don't
really respect and people disrespected
me too by the way
like like Ryan at happy healthy vegan
right good luck so you know look so I
mean I'm not saying he's a hundred
percent wrong here I think there's a
subtle and pervasive way in which the
profit motive through patreon donations
you know does change people's behavior
I'm someone who's worked in the charity
sector the nonprofit sector myself and
so he's been fascinated by it my whole
life I mean you know like I grew up in a
family that fetishized the left-wing
idea of revolution that the only kind of
political change was through revolution
and the charity sector is really like
this sobering antidote to the
revolutionary pretenses of the left-wing
is a here's a way to change the world
here's a way to take make the world
place doesn't involve burning down
buildings doesn't involve murdering
people doesn't involve it in stuff and
also doesn't involve like
dissatisfaction getting worse and worse
and worse getting more more pent up
before the revolutions coming you know
so I've been kind of fascinated by the
the charity sector my whole life as an
alternative to that revolutionary
left-wing for you but I don't know why
does he assume that people are
fundamentally in denial about the fact
that donations to charity include
salaries they include wages they include
cost deliver why why would they not but
thousands and thousands of people
volunteer their time every day guys
while still working at a job and would
never think of asking others for their
hard earned money I think it does run
counter to human nature to a deep
yearning from
instinct that this isn't what charity
should be this isn't what politics
should be even this isn't what war
should be this should be a more
authentic spontaneous heartfelt and
amateur volunteer based engagement of
these things and nine times out of ten
it's not
Banas yen so we got a few topics to
discuss here in response to my old
nemesis plant eats a believ plant eats
is based in Toronto Ontario Canada I
believe the collab is we just looked at
his apartment to it I think it's in
Vancouver [ __ ] is he damn good I'm not
gonna collab with him right you're right
you're right you're right you're right
he did actually say in the subject line
a million dollars and I said yeah don't
tempt me okay these in Vancouver forget
it we're probably never gonna be up the
guy but whatever so I got beef with
plant eats going way back we're gonna
talk about some some interesting stuff
here they're really two topics one yes
set up a bunch of comments on Twitter
about the question of charities this is
these are brass tacks questions of
political organization money
charity work etc fundament the
fundamental premise of people donating
money to a political cause being called
into question for my needs and then the
second I'm really going to talk about it
the question of Education and
credentials you know what education
credentials does Mike the beacon have
what education credentials does vegan
gains have what occasion credentials did
Gary Yourofsky have or any of those any
of those vegan leaders you know
sometimes those question matters what
education credentials is Donald Trump
justified States this is the era we live
in though right keeping keeping all the
real I know in Obama's whole career I
don't think his credentials helped him
oh my god he was a terrible president
anyway look we're screwed I mean you
know the last series of presidents the
NSA's have been so bad people now look
back on Bill Clinton like he was a great
all right anyway so it not tuppence
video I think I think we can do both in
this video because it's not not that
much to say so
look we've had a lot of fan requests for
my girlfriend to do more talking but I
don't really feel it's my role as a
boyfriend to force her to talk she
doesn't have an opinion on something
like it's cool I think doing this
instead of doing as a monologue me
talking at my girlfriend she can jump in
at any one time but you know I think it
would be way worse it was like come on
Melissa
this is not radio broadcasting this is
YouTube so just get over at people
she'll talk if she wants to talk but I'm
not gonna I'm not gonna force that
alright so the first topic I raised with
him was his claim that donating to
patreon that if you donate to support a
YouTube personality or YouTube vegan
activist if you donate them on patreon
that that is a conflict of interest so
he said this in criticising he wants to
take money out of the YouTube game why
well okay look so the first question I
said to him was does he really know the
meaning of the term conflict of interest
right so cobbling the meadows I mean
it's just used in newspapers very often
maybe it's used so off that people
forget what it really means so if I have
a conflict of interest it means like I'm
a judge in a court case but because I
have money invested in the stock market
that will be influenced by the judgment
in this court case I am NOT doing my job
I'm being derelict in my duty well but
it's a little more specific than even
just being biased because you can be
biased so that I'm in conflict of
interest you can be biased just because
you're racist you're angry call the
defenders it specifically means I'm
gonna be derelict in my duties I'm not
going to do my job or I'm not going to
enforce the rules because of some kind
of investment some kind of interest some
kind of benefit some kind of other
concern which we have in government all
the time I mean you know it's it's it's
it's a real issue but ok if I ask you to
donate on patreon either for straight-up
political vegan activism or you know you
name it for me just coming on YouTube
and talking about my life whatever it is
you know there's a lot of harmless silly
stuff on YouTube and there's more
serious you know roll up your sleeves
put it whoa how would those donations
just if so factor just by that fact just
by the fact that I'm asked you to make
donations how would that be a conflict
of interest there has to be two separate
interests in conflict there has to be
one duty I'm being derelict in because
of what your your donations now look I'm
gonna keep it all the way real I'm gonna
keep a little real I have said things on
YouTube that direct
cost me money right where I lost patreon
support immediately because I kept it
real and so it was real I'm on it said
what I really believe somebody really
thought so I can see that is a type of
conflict of interest if you're a phony
piece of [ __ ] who's not gonna keep it
real which I'm not right so what one
example is reminded of recently when I
took a stand on the phoney cure for
cancer controversy
I took a stance supporting a natural
vegan my old nemesis a natural vegan but
I took a stand saying she was right in
her criticism of a a not scientifically
valid cure for cancer it's actually a
cure for cancer that is illegal in the
United States and people who want it
crossed the border New Mexico and pay
for it there because it's actually you
know the gallon so this gives you a
sense for that stance but my saying that
I had a bunch of people cancel their
donations and you know enough of them
wrote to me saying that was why that it
was it was obvious so that taking a
stand that cost me money um look it's an
open question so I have I have said
insulting things towards happy healthy
vegan
I think we're deserved I think they were
entertaining but I mean there's
definitely a sense in which I would
probably be making more money if I was
being nice a nice with people I don't
really respect people who disrespected
me too by the way
like like Ryan at happy healthy vegan
right good luck good luck so you know
look so I mean I'm not saying he's a
hundred percent wrong here I think
there's a subtle and pervasive way in
which the profit motive through patreon
donations you know does change people's
behavior on YouTube if you're not a man
of principle if you're not hung up on
this ID I have about duty and honor and
doing the right thing because the right
thing to do yeah easily swayed to say
one thing or another because of the
donations then yeah that's a even if I
was doing rap album reviews you know
well if I give it out one negative
review you know I mean like I think I
think
I would not really call that a conflict
of interest yeah but also in the in the
case of bite size vegan I don't see how
she could have something like her videos
are not right something that could be so
controversial that she would lose money
I think her content is educational it is
through you know she researches the
videos like crazy yeah so I don't it's
boring as hell dummy I have zero
interest in her content but I mean it's
all kind of aimed at that 101 level of
information but I don't know I mean if
if this does influence their behavior
you know the look okay again I'll keep
it real this is partly about YouTube in
general this part of the book vegan
activism in general most of which has
nothing to do with YouTube and it's
probably about bite size vegan its
particular example and plant eats as a
particular example right uh I do
remember hearing an interview with bite
size Emily where she talked about her
own past education she was one of those
people who studied a mixed bag of things
in university including Sanskrit
generally too and then you know later
decided to go into medical sciences and
she dropped out of her medical science
degree to do YouTube full time and she
just talked about like look you know
like she feels that weight on her
shoulders she's got to make him enough
money out of this YouTube thinks so you
know I mean there's there's some truth
to that but I think what you're talking
about there is the profit motive
pure and simple you're not talking about
conflict of interest so I'm still gonna
stick by this thing I don't think that
is conflict of interest even though I
still think it's really worth talking
about
in what ways is the profit motive change
people's behavior on the Internet
and what ways does it change it in
politics I mean just recently I was
saying direct action everywhere I think
they're making these [ __ ] videos and
uploading them about you know so-called
so-called open open rescue you know and
and there's money involved
there's generating money from this kind
of propaganda so they're the closest
thing I've asked the EXCI for years to
provide me with their actual budget and
they'd never have years years and years
way before I met you I've been asking
them for that through you know active
members and they've they've never been
willing to provide a budget if you think
they're open rescue project is
impressive which many people do on
not impressed but many people do would
you be more or less impressed when you
know that their budget for that is
approximately two hundred thousand US
dollars case that's the projected budget
for 2017 so their investigations budget
which I believe includes open rescue
open rescue is the main showpiece of
that it's not worth my breaking down
these categories okay so two hundred
thousand US dollars if that's what it
takes to rescue two pigs and get into
the headlines
you know appear in on The Tonight Show
I'm sorry I don't know if they appeared
in The Tonight Show but you know the
garlic that mainstream press okay
a lot of people see that they click on
the YouTube video they don't pay a dumb
thing oh wow that's impressive
I don't I'm not so easily impressed then
you say hey guess what the price tag
that was two hundred thousand dollars I
think we could get more bang for our
buck at City Hall so you have money
matters money matters but it's not
conflict of interest I mean it's it's
really a question the profit motive pure
and simple which is worth philosophizing
about worth worth reflecting on whether
it's direct action everywhere a bite
size vegan or probably vegan gains or
something you know vegan gains gotta pay
that rent he's got horses man he's got
hoarseness and topics and bunny rabbits
man so he's got to pay those bills but
anyway uh he needs to sit opened by the
way if he's not making enough money from
YouTube he will go back to doing health
and fitness coaching at the gym kind of
thing know that kind of stuff so
personal trainer tips deficit good for
him you know it's obviously it's great
to sign a full pocket I believe I think
he probably could make a good living
doing that right next point I do agree
about transparency and accounting but
this is a huge problem with non patreon
vegan charities to for example direct
action everywhere
pedda etc so in many cases there's no
pretense that the patreon money is being
sponsored is yes in response to him
saying that bite size vegan should keep
the amount that she earns that she's
putting towards charity and separate
that from what is paying her salary I
remember that from Italy okay so that
that was his more specific idea was it
that she should account for how much of
the money is going to salary and other
types of expenditures yeah okay look I
mean you know
where does your money go when you donate
money to peda or direct action
everywhere good luck finding out and I'm
someone who's worked in the charity
sector the nonprofit sector myself and
so what has been fascinated by it my
whole life I mean you know like I grew
up in a family that fetishized the
left-wing idea of revolution that the
only kind of political change was
through revolution and the charity
sector is really like this sobering
antidote to the revolutionary pretenses
of the left-wing who's a here's a way to
change the world here's a way to take
make the world place doesn't involve
burning down buildings doesn't involve
murdering people doesn't involve it in
stuff and also doesn't involve like
dissatisfaction getting worse and worse
and worse getting more more pent up
before the revolutions come which it
which is part of the classical Marxist
view of the world that things get worse
and worse and worse and then there's
this this collapse based on the analysis
of France in 1789 primarily by the way
really crappy one-sided analysis of what
happened in France in 1789 but
nevertheless anyway you know so I've
been kind of fascinated by the the
charity sector my whole life as an
alternative to that revolutionary
left-wing for you well it's like hey
look here all these people and some of
them are voluntarily donating their
money it's the people that need it and
some of them are less of a right-wing
and some of them are not you know all
kinds of different people try to do all
kinds of different positive things yeah
I remember we just recently looked up a
chart for some reason how much money
Americans don't use per year and it's
significant it's massive America is
generally a low tax high donation
society whereas Canada is a high tax low
donation Society has broad brushstrokes
in stereotypes but yes some some
cultures are more are more giving than
others um it was this comes up under
under budget headings but I guess I'll
just stay on top of it for the moment
I'm uncharacteristically I'll stay on
topic right so look his complaint is
about transparency so if you donate
money to Greenpeace to right action
every one of those how much do you
deserve to know about how much they they
what what they do with the money but
where the money goes I don't know I
think with most youtubers and with in my
case I've never had enough donations to
really have to account for things like
that like I
currently get 160 dollars a month in
donations since I guess what guys it
goes into my pocket but you know nothing
else to say about that but for sure if
you're doing fundraisers for a
particular project or if you say look I
want to go one attend a certain
political conference you know I can
imagine you want to break down this is
this is how much you're gonna spend on
airplane tickets to go to the conference
this is you know how much you're going
to spend the hotel maybe you do have to
give give particular break no sir the
one that wanted to open an animal
sanctuary oh god yeah right Joe vegan
right right that was real in his project
collapse that's big money and big risk
and big responsibility sure right and my
situation is zero many reserve risk but
look you know the one the one exception
about Imagineer is I raised six thousand
five hundred dollars in less than 48
hours for this Corps case and that case
there's only one item on the list of
expenditures so yeah went to the law
firm and that story's gonna end the way
it ends I mean I don't think that's
gonna really go to happy ending but sure
you know that there's a question of you
know what do you spend these things on
can you can you give an account of them
but I to know why does he assume that
people are fundamentally in denial about
the fact that donations to charity
includes salaries they include wages
they include cost deliver why why would
they not he only missed towards the end
the video but he says the end of you his
thesis is that these people should have
full-time jobs and just to charity or
two why why is that your assumption that
that's not the way the nonprofit sector
works at all you know I mean you you
know sorry when I was living in Cambodia
when I was living allowance I was part
of the nonprofit charity sector when I
was involved First Nations I mean the
assumption was my career was gonna be a
profiteer or was gonna be a for-profit
involved with curry in a jib way or
something you know I was involved with
and talking to people was when I'm in
yeah so for example when I was in Laos
yeah right and in all those there's
always the question of how much of your
salary is actually donations how much is
government money how much is taxpayers
money that's the other that's the other
thing in the nonprofit sector sure I do
think some of my salary in Laos was paid
for by the taxpayers of Belgium in
Europe so because we're
partly a government supported charity
but partly also donors like you were
paying my salary right but I mean I mean
if you had it if you had a philosophical
statement plant eats if you began by
saying that he believes in a philosophy
that own the only form of legitimate
charity is part-time amateur charity
that would be different you know his
main point is that bite size vegan
hasn't made a video in seven months so
he's saying you know if you're getting
these donations from patreon you should
be putting out content and like where
are the videos but you know I made this
comment to you like she has so much
content and I don't know what else she
could do at this point looking at like
with the type of channel that she has
but she I know that she has been going
to different vegan festivals like and I
know that she's doing speaking she
currently I didn't know that family
well I'd okay I haven't looked looked
into it but like when I was in the
States
back in March there was a veg fest in
Michigan and she was one of the speakers
she was doing live she's doing live gigs
she's appearing places in person okay
cool that's what I took from that I
haven't like but you know I don't know
if really she couldn't do much more on
YouTube and um I'm sure the people that
are on patreon know what she's doing and
they can you know decide to stop
donating to her they don't want anymore
I don't really see it as like just a
criticism of bite size vegan of Emily
you know I mean I think like I guess it
is disturbing to people like the
professionalization of the army as soon
as you have a class of people who are
professional soldiers who are at any
given time ready to make war that's
something very different from maybe the
myth of a defensive war that it's you
know normal farmers and tax officials
and merchants you know put down their
tools and pick up weapons and run out to
defend the nation no you have a standing
army of professional killers who do
nothing but right you know the morale
well the moral quality of a war is
different if it's amateur or
professional and sometimes one side is
amateur and the other side is
professional the United States bombing
Laos United States incredibly
professionalized Army right and the
other side yet lotion farmers try to
survive with all these bombs falling on
you know very unequal war
believe it or not Laos was not bombing
the United States there was no wasn't
the case that they were sending
airplanes over to bomb Washington DC at
the same time not at all variation
that's what that is what was called
asymmetrical warfare right I think in
the same sense I mean we we have a
little bit of a problem with
professionals ation of politicians we
looked up a random that we're actually
looking at a list of First Nations
indigenous politicians in the United
States and Canada history and one of
them I clicked on the guy it said you'd
get a synopsis of his career he started
off as a longshoreman he started off
working on the steamboats as a steamboat
worker right loading loading cargo on
and off of a steamboat in West Virginia
and then he eventually eventually was
elected to the Senate I said damn you
know we don't have that kind of upward
mobility in today's politics we don't
have what was last time you heard about
[Music]
anyway look anyway I'm just saying you
know we do have the kind of upward
mobility in our society at the moment
it's not common to hear about people
becoming politicians or that kind of
really low-level blue-collar you know
work you know
maybe one in a million you know maybe I
haven't once most a long while anyway so
the idea the politician is someone
amateur of the people in the people so
this is something something like okay
maybe on a deeper level what he
cherishes without examining it is the
idea that YouTube activists and
political activists generally or
amateurs that they have a day job
they're a waiter or a waitress and then
in their spare time they just do
politics and there's spare time they do
charity work and they shouldn't be doing
a professional let me tell you I mean
that's not plantera that's not the world
we live on as soon as I mean it's it's a
small but significant some she's getting
three thousand dollars a month I believe
in donations that is enough just barely
enough for you to quit your day job if
you're a waitress or something and try
to try to do this kind of nonprofit
charity work full-time so I if he
presented that as his philosophy first
and foremost I would sympathize with his
position more as it is I don't
sympathize with it at all you know if he
said like he has some kind of athenian
of democratic philosophy that these
people should not be professional
politicians they should not be
professional activists they should not
be you know NGO nonprofit charity sector
employees they should have a day job and
then just do this out of civic virtue in
their spare time but I don't think
anyone has audience believed so I think
that's a very rare view of the world in
the 21st century well maybe it should be
and maybe that's maybe those are ancient
virtues were thinking about but then I
mean just think about something as
simple as going to a conference going to
a speaking engagement if you've got a
day job that's very very hard to do if
you've got a day job you know if you've
got a day job and kids you're really
pinned down your ability to just do
something as simple as that's alright
there's a legitimate open question plant
eats as to whether or not there's a gap
between expectations and reality and
other cases we pardon me when you don't
extra protection everywhere for example
are you comfortable with the fact that
you're paying people salaries if not
what did you imagine so again we were
just looking at the budget the very
informal unofficial budget the only
thing resembling a budget from director
never was actually a blog post and it's
not a full budget it doesn't give you
they they get real vague they get real
defensive about the issue of paying
people salaries I talked to someone who
asked Wayne about this so Wayne is the
dictator Wayne Siong is the
self-appointed dictator for life of
direct action everywhere and if you ask
him about salaries he does not want to
talk about it face to face so you get
some really vague categories here fifty
seven thousand dollars in direct
expenditures twenty four thousand
dollars in fellowship support so one of
those are both of those our salaries our
money going into people's pockets that
they used to buy gasoline
who'd pay rent and this is my point if
there's nothing shameful about that why
are they ashamed of it why not straight
up say we paid 12 employees 20 thousand
dollars a year each like these must be
really low so I don't know you know I
don't know what they're getting paid
they're gonna need something I mean
they're getting paid like fellowship
support I'm gonna support your
fellowship by giving you $20,000 yeah
they're they're supporting someone's
fellowship with money that's not a wage
that's not a that's not a salary think
about that and you know again direct
direct expenditures what does that
really mean so it's an interesting thing
obviously plant eats on this issue there
is a big audience the degrees of them
there are many many people including
people inside direct action everywhere
who are not comfortable with the
fundamental concept of collecting
donations and spending those donations
on salaries now in a sense I don't get
it in a sense I do I mean if you if you
donate money to petaa we're doing them
buddies going
one of the biggest jokes you know is the
Academy in the United States oh you
guessed it it's look up their form 990
they are a charity Oh charity the
Academy Awards foundation I think it's
just called the Academy Foundation their
legal name and you know they have to
give like the list of the salaries for
the ten most highly paid people in the
organization of stuff god damn
I mean took this to call this a charity
and you know and the money sorry the
money poured in by the government the
taxpayer support whoa screw you taxpayer
taxpayer you American taxpayers do you
realize your taxpayers dollars are going
to give George Clooney a five-star hotel
and like a five-star dinner he doesn't
need George Clooney has enough without
taxpayers that it's unbelievable it's
unbelievable so you know it does matter
I do think that you know if you're
whatever charity running you need to
have a statement of principle in your
constitution like none of our employees
will earn more than a hundred thousand
dollars a year or
me you know I don't know it depends
gonna cheer - you like PCRM if some of
your employees are surgeons maybe UFC
look none of our employees gonna make
more than $200,000 a year but if you
want someone who's a full-time surgeon
to stop working as a surgeon and come
and do you know activism human Venus
maybe you do have to pay them like
150,000 $170,000 maybe you have to pay a
really high seller I don't know but you
know you can have transparency about
salaries when I was in the city Toronto
from my perspective there was a
political bombshell but Canadians just
don't care they Canadians are lacking in
those ancient Greek civic virtues we had
a law passed that every employee of the
city government who are in more than a
hundred thousand dollars a year it had
to be stated publicly what they said was
oh my god the gravy train that was
revealed it was nightmare-inducing and I
knew a lot of those guys from City Hall
know I didn't know them deeply personal
it was like that piece of crap that guy
guy would like a crappy job as an
advocate for a waterfront housing
development so look what do you even do
you just you just promote this city
project owning or any huge huge sums of
money taxpayers money it's it's scary so
there's there's reason for discomfort
there's read there's good reason for
transparency but his fundamental
approach here is to throw out a claim
like sir what's her name
it's like the bite size vegan is not
entitled to a wage when she's openly
saying donate money so she can avoid so
this can be your full-time job so in
that fundamental sense I I think I do I
think I do disagree with him all right
did he do to do it makes absolutely zero
sense for you to say plate eats that she
ought to separate her charity from her
income when I lived in Cambodia and Laos
working for a charity was my income
that's the whole charity sector
donations paid wages 99% of donors know
this I continued donations made to go
vegan well another interesting and
strange example so we can we could pop
in video from go vegan world I was
showing you video of go vegan world
and this is big money this is a big
money charity I want to make it open
call right now if anyone in the audience
okay I can't say I've been looking for
like one year for their budget you know
like you know more than six months I've
been looking for their budget I can't
find anywhere on the internet from any
European agency or what-have-you
anybody's watching this if you have a
connect to get the financial reports I
want to learn from their success I'm
gonna learn from their failure I wanna
learn for their time but go vegan world
that is big money that is a lot of money
and I say here donations to go vegan
world pay for one salaries two
illustrations of advertising agencies
and three advertising rates the direct
right sold cost to put a poster in a
public place how can you say that donors
are unsuspecting about such basic that
this is the reality of the world of
non-profit charities when people are
being looked when people donate money to
a church do they know where the money
goes I think that's a complex question
you know when people donate specifically
to an International Missionary Church do
the network goes if you donate money in
Florida and it's actually paying for a
fat white man in Thailand to live on the
beach drinking cocktails in the name of
preaching Jesus Christ's two tera vaada
Buddhists in Thailand do you know where
the money goes
trust me living in Southeast Asia
Cambodia telling us this is like a
monthly scandal the reality of of
Christian charities you know missionary
charities in Southeast Asia because you
know you may be paying for someone to be
on permanent vacation you know sure
those are pretty complex but these
examples these are these are pretty
transparent you know I'd like to know
that the numbers for going wrong I'm not
saying they're a scam I don't think that
at all I don't think they're a Sam scam
I think they're a success story but it's
amazing to me that they managed to
leverage the little bit of a little bit
of legitimacy they had as a sanctuary
they started as Eden farm Sanctuary in
Ireland that a little bit of legitimacy
in public program then they managed to
leverage that into what looks like a
multi-million dollar campaign really
look for them one time yeah yeah we look
a looker yes
I've been looking yeah yeah I couldn't
find any of that so you know what I used
the different European sirs but anyway
anyone who's got info on that hooked me
up all right so you say quote they never
have to report how they spent their
native money Oh Oh sir so the point is
here he said that real charities like
the ones he provides links to have to
report how they spent donated money it's
the law whereas someone like myself for
bite size vegan well this is this is
really kind of misleading because and I
say to him look I think you're a phony
I think you're faking here you know
plant eats I don't think you've ever
actually done this kind of political
science research I don't think you've
ever sat down and read us form 990
you've ever actually read the reports
Jerry's make we just talked about this
with direction everywhere you can just
be vague it's very easy to be non
transparent it's very easy to mask what
these are doing
pedda most of the expenditures are just
consultancy so many million dollars
consulted and you don't even know what
is it for you know what what was the
consults so just by creating a separate
company I'm gonna be some trouble but to
my knowledge this was one of the
problems with the National Geographic
Society National Geographic Society they
had both a charity and a company right
well that's real convenient because you
can just say oh yeah we sent so many
million to this company for what well
now the company doesn't have to report
so I paid so much to this consultancy
firm I paid him that's all you got so if
no if the if the charity doesn't make a
huge effort to really be honest with its
donors you can just get very vague
categories that were just talking about
fellowship support what is fellowship
support where is your money going what
does that really mean orrin tetiz case
consultancy and what have you so again I
think he's talking out of his hat here
he just does not know what he saw he has
never made this this kind of effort and
look here's the other thing impact
impact and what's called absorption
capacity I now make like a hundred and
sixty dollars on patreon if you donate
$100 to Minnie it is gonna make a
difference
no but let's keep it all real right now
I have zero capacity to do anything in
vegan activism I may do a fundraiser to
publish my showing story book when you
know well maybe try to promote that and
publish this coming but yes if someone
donated $1000 $1000 is not very much
money if you're someone who's they could
then say to me hey look I want you to
attend this conference I want you to
give a lecture at this event and I would
say that great you know right oh okay I
mean you know within the next six months
I got time on my calendar I do so if
they said you know obviously I got a
chordate with other things but they said
hey there's this vegan event in Florida
I think you should I want you to go
there and deliver this message I want
you to go a debate dog castration isn't
vegan something want you to debate that
killing cockroaches is okay for vegans
whatever the issue is they want me to
speak on you can donate $1,000 maybe
they don't have a huge decisive
influence on me and what I do and you're
gonna have real-world outcomes whatever
those are whether it's speaking at this
conference what is it you want what's
the outcome you want right that's you
know direct impact and search best you
donate $1,000 to peda who the [ __ ] are
you your opinion doesn't count for [ __ ]
you're not going to influence a pet it
does in any way it's gonna disappear
into a multi-million dollar budget and
it's and it's not transparent it's not
pedda are legally compliant they comply
with the legal obligations to be
transparent and nothing more if you
don't believe me go ahead and do the
reading anyone can down download their
us form 990 from the internet which is
legally required from basically you can
download it and try to figure it
yourself where your money goes with them
so know there's a big difference there
and I think that actually favors people
like me and bite-size Emily I think if
you give bite-size Emily a thousand
dollars you can probably have an email
back and forth the thorough and let her
know what you want you know we don't I
mean what why you donated away your
expectation what your hopes are and she
might read back you saying look I'm
sorry I can't do it you know with
patreon you can cancel your pledge
before you've paid it's not really you
know she might say look I'm sorry it's
not you know but I think I think
donating $1,000 divided sighs Emily's
probably be way more rewarding and
packed full and have way more directly
measurable outcomes then donate $1,000
to peda and me even more so you know and
I'd be honest that way too if someone
was donating a thousand dollars but it
was something I couldn't do or something
I wouldn't do I just say look I'm sorry
but you know you know I can get I can
give you the money back this is what
you're expecting but that's not in the
cards to me so no I mean you know did
this kind of small youtuber activism you
can change people's lives and in some
ways you can change the world and it's
pretty hard to convince yourself
donating to big agencies of that it's
gonna change the world you know and that
you know what I mean I wondered that
about go vegan world too because if I
had the money to donate I probably
prefer to just directly myself do what
they're doing directly do an ad campaign
why would I donate it to that agent so
that also becomes an issue right at what
point you pass the point diminishing
returns well I've got a million dollars
to donate why would I give that to this
charity instead of just directly myself
doing vegan activism with that million
dollars that's a real question for big
donors I think that's a really
meaningful question yeah so the other
issue was transparency about credentials
and education oh right yeah so here we
have new hot off the press we have plant
eats denigrating Mike the vegan who
muffed integrated myself Mike Mike got
back to me right so Mike replied to my
video criticizing him and he basically
admitted I was right
oh look at this I'm slouching down so
much melissa's the tall one grouchy
anyway yeah I did I did I did have a
little bit of a conversation with him
via Facebook um yeah so what credentials
does Donald Trump have what credentials
this vegan gains have what role do
credentials play in this year game most
of my experience with this you know is
is really negative I don't I don't go
around expecting people to
this is something that I mean you called
out freely for not having any
credentials and she lied about it yeah
yeah she was caught lying yeah sure sure
sure
no it's it's significant and I mean I
think my argument about freely on that
was was a little bit more nuanced I mean
among other things I said I thought her
total lack of sympathy for the people
she was giving advice to reflected a
lack of any kind of clinical experience
you know like she doesn't know what it's
like to be coaching someone and giving
them advice when they're struggling with
recovering from an injury just all the
real world experience yeah you know her
her lack of education I thought was
impacting what she was saying in many
different ways you know and some of that
could come out of hands-on experience if
you like in formal education rather than
focus but no sure her the fact that she
lied about having a formal credential
that mattered of course yeah and you
know she also said things like she
didn't need any credentials her body was
her only credentials the results she got
her abdomen the fact she can take
photographs of him that was the only
credential she needed and so on so that
was definitely a debate I engaged in I
think I won I mean I think I destroy the
other side of that long-term with
freelee and durianrider over the the
significance of credentials and that is
in the context of giving diet and weight
loss and health advice and I was also
able to provide examples where Frehley
was a hundred percent scientifically
wrong garlic does not contain a
neurotoxin her claim that garlic is not
safe for human consumption is ridiculous
her philosophy of the mono meal and what
is and what isn't a true food the like
you shouldn't eat parsley this is her
her belief yeah you know this Parsley's
healthy kids yet are you shocked to hear
parsley healthy
not according to freely doctor freely
claims in argues at length that a food
like parsley cannot be eaten as a mono
meal therefore it's not a true food
therefore it's insanity so yeah that is
that is the kind of pseudo scientific
internet factoid view of the world that
would be chat
if she got you know formal degree and in
hope you know we in any kind of
nutritional science Dietetic it's
mentions that Mike the vegans videos can
even be dry because of all the
scientific study is that he was right
you know he's not just making baseless
claims like freely was so right and I
feel you know he was 100% wrong in the
video I criticized them on I criticism
on his health claims about marijuana and
to me that just showed that someone can
use a whole stack of peer-reviewed
articles and still be a hundred percent
wrong not fifty percent wrong a hundred
percent wrong so you know that that
happens once in a while vegan gain
screws up that way I've seen a couple of
things where being gains kind of dropped
the ball but you know he's an amateur
who's doing serious work on fuel
reserves but look not all forms of
expertise are credentialed in 21st
century I still really am an expert on
Buddhism right now I can prove that in a
lot of different ways like hey that one
lecture I gave at Oxford University
England at the invitation of Professor
Emeritus Richard gamba Gombrich gold go
read the lecture the PDFs on the
internet you know I mean like you can
decide for yourself whether or not that
lecture proves that I have potential
experience I have real expertise and
knowledge and Buddhism there are two
sides to this one there's whether or not
someone has real expertise expertise
that something separate from credentials
come back to Angela does somewhat of
expertise and - is someone going to be
honest with you so you remember the
sequel to cowspiracy I forget what it
was called behalf okay what the hell if
these are both documentary films
cowspiracy and Modell there's a
documentary called what the hell and in
it he goes and talks to a guy who's a
legitimate expert in diabetes in the
science and Prudential div' but he's not
being honest with you and you know the
guys so wound up and uncomfortable and
you know one point the guy doing the
interview just says yeah but what about
the link to dairy like he barely gets
that out the guy's like standing up in
his chair saying I'm not gonna talk
about diet okay so that's someone who's
on someone who's an expert he has
expertise but he's not gonna be honest
with you in Buddhism it's huge issue you
know can I name people who are greater
experts than I am Buddhism easily I
could sit here now and name 1020 people
who
but will they be honest with you will
they tell you the truth about the
history of slavery in Thailand no no no
no will they tell you the honest truth
about the history of gender like the
status of women in Buddhism in Sri Lanka
or Tyler anyone no like these aren't
even that controversial they're real
well they told the truth about
meditation and Buddhism never like
nology torture them on the rack they
won't even be honest with you about what
they do no and they'll be much more
dishonest of what they don't know you
know so my expertise in Buddhism are of
extraordinary value for that reason
there's the expertise and then the
different ultimately political
components of why someone will be honest
or dishonest because I think that guy in
what the hell of the diabetes X but I
think he's being dishonest you for I
think what we could just call political
reasons yeah you know that's that's a
simple way to summarize it so that's I
think for me that's the core the issue
is having real expertise and being
unbiased in that sense to your
motivation being you know really being
committed telling the truth of the
subject now in Buddhism I never got a
PhD and even while we've been together
I've been applying to and talking to
universities about maybe getting a PhD
in Buddhism it's still a possibility for
me it's not that appealing but you know
it's this whole long story so I'm not
credentialed that way but nevertheless I
have expertise there that I really worth
something when you're looking at people
who don't have a PhD or some other
obvious credential like that I think you
can do the the due diligence D you'ii do
the due diligence sorry a bit of an
idiom in English you can do the due
diligence to figure out whether or not
they have expertise and in my case I
feel anyone who can use Google can see
really easily just where I've lived the
Buddhist monks I've met face to face the
publications have got its act and just
even my blog entries let alone my peer
reviewed articles you can really easily
figure out oh this guy put in the time
wow this guy studied the language as
this guy you know this guy has articles
and running that just really shows many
many years of occasion with this where
at a minimum he has an informed opinion
doesn't mean I'm right being wrong is a
wonderful
rewarding part of human life on earth
being wrong as the spice of life as far
as I'm concerned I love being wrong
anytime I'm wrong it means I'm learning
something you know I mean so it's not
being wrong
it's noticing that I'm wrong that's
that's the spice of life is finding out
that you were wrong because then you
really know really know you're learning
something right so I don't know you know
in different fields I think there are
different ways where you can recognize
someone's expertise without their having
been formally credentials you know
what's the road forward for veganism I
have a diploma in political science does
anyone respect my views on vegan
politics more because I have a formal
credential in education in politics in
my opinion on vegan politics does it
count more because I have a degree in
political science yes or no I think we
both know the answer is no that's I
think that's part of the tragedy of the
Commons the 21st century that's that
that's the the tragedy of mainstream
politics whose opinion matters on
politics and you know a lot of people
have irrelevant degrees they owe a lot
of irrelevant degrees to get them in
political power they have a background
as a lawyer or something that would
background the you know Bureau of
commerce and trade or something there
are a lot of things that seems to
elevate your political status but by the
same token whereby nobody cares that I
have a degree in political science and
thus gives more weight to my views on
politics by the same token I kind of
feel like it's a lot more of a mixed bag
of what is the importance of your
university degree and in the future of
the the vegan movement you know good 40
45 minute conversation yeah yeah turns
out like the vegan is getting a master's
in public health yeah it was funny that
at the end of the video right it says
all right yes so he has some
undergraduate degree in science and he's
getting a master's right so right and
that that doesn't qualify him to have an
opinion on whether or not smoking
marijuana
is brain damage it doesn't but you know
it doesn't it also doesn't mean he's
gonna be wrong about that I've used the
example I mean look with the health
claims obviously there's more risk
there's more danger you'd actually hurt
someone's health by giving bad advice
you know there are reasons to be really
extra reticent if you don't have a
robust scientific background in making
health claims claims about the Health
Sciences
however I've used the example in this
channel many times they're saying look I
know I know as a fact that you should
not Huff glue I'm a hundred percent
against glue huffing if you ask me to
sit you down and talk you through the
science of how does huffing glue destroy
your brain - I can't do it I cannot talk
you through the chemistry or the
biochemistry or the etiology of how
exactly huffing glue is bad for you if
someone says to me that they really
believe that the glue fumes they're
invisible
I don't know right twenty minute video
talking and with studies and it's all
peer-reviewed sources right exactly so
would you say that you are qualified you
know that you don't enjoy expertise
right you're nevertheless you're putting
this information on what I think I think
that's also really interesting you know
subtle and slippery element of this some
subjects really do require those kinds
of qualifications and some don't
like I feel I can say hey quit huffing
glue
I feel qualified to say that I think
that's so similar even though I don't
have the scientific background to say
that right and then on the other hand
all the time I see people making claims
about Buddhism which you might think
would be easy to do and I say no they're
making mistakes equivalent to mixing up
Santa Claus with Jesus Christ you know
they're mixing different literary and
mythological sources from different
periods of time on different continents
like no that's from Japan in the 18th
century not from India and the 5th
century BC you know that's where they're
really making errors like that so
something like that which might seem
easy for an amateur to dabble in very
often sigh no you really
lack the expertise to talk was talking
about so that's my experience life it's
very unpredictable it's very hard to
tell when we're treading into southern
where expertise matters I think on a
very deep level in Western culture we
don't want to believe in a professional
army we don't want to believe in
professional killers we want to believe
in the virtue of the volunteer I think
we don't want to believe in the
professionalization of political
organizers that these should be
spontaneous uprisings charity should be
a spontaneous outpouring of generosity
and it's not these people of the dead
gray soul of a bureaucrat they put on a
suit and tie they take your money and
they go and hand out sacks of rice to
starving people but if that's how you
want if you want to do that if you
that's those part of my job in Laos we
literally handed sacks of rice to
starving people you know if that's what
you want to do you got to pay us and you
know you got to pay us enough that we
can go on vacation on a beach in
Thailand and all the rest of it and
we'll go over there and hand out those
sacks of rice I mean it's I think it
does run counter it's a human nature to
a deep yearning for our moral instinct
that this isn't what charity should be
this isn't what Paulette it should be
even this isn't what war should be this
should be a more authentic spontaneous
heartfelt and amateur volunteer based
engage of these things and nine times
out of ten it's not the link to my
patreon is below this channel donate now
a bonus Yin